Project: jQuery Facebook/Google Style Chat w/ RESTful Communication
Price: 400
3/18/2015, 2 weeks


My high level design for this chat would be the following:

1. On page load, plugin initializes the chat, asks the server for "user list", and the "opened chat" (maintaining open chats across page changes makes more intuitive sense. If this isn't implemented in the backend, I could use browser cache to make it happen)
2. As site user click on a user on the user list, makes a "start chat" json call to server, and visually open a new chat window. Next load the previous messages. (if the list is very long, you should consider paginate it, and I can implement some sort of infinite scrolling for past messages)
3. User can type and press enter, which would make a "send message" call.
4. If user closes the chat window, send a "leave chat" call
5. Meanwhile, the plugin would "check for new message" with a fixed interval. Based on the result, open new window, or display new messages, and possibly flashing browser title)


Compile code
-------------------
1. Install grunt globablly:
  npm install -g grunt-cli

2. Install grunt dependencies for this project
  npm install grunt --save-dev

3. under the plugin directory, call the following to compile the code
   grunt compile

4. use compiled code under dist/


Modifying style
------------------
- Play around with variables in less/main.less
- compile less with "grunt compile"
- For example, to change the background color of the chatbox, modify the value for "@chatbox-bg-color," then recompile the css.


Overview 
------------------
The chat plugin is serparated into controller, model and view. 
Controller
- Setups up the chat plugin. Initializes the model object and the view object and coordinate between the two's interaction through a shared event handler. The event handler is a simple publish/subscriber object shared between the View and the Model.

View
- manages all the user interface (the sidebar and the chatboxes). Each UI component is created and organized through the baseview primitive that simplifies the UI interaction and events handling. The HTML is rendered through the Handlebar templating library, which is defined in view/templates.js. 

Model
- The only object that communicates with the server APIs. Generally, what happens is an event occured in the some view, which triggers an event. Then a callback defined in the controller would be triggered, and sends a request to the Model and depending on the response triggers some function in the view.

Work
------------------
5/14: Fix the textbox scrolling issue. Add auto-expand and shift-enter.